# python-challenge

# In this python-challenge are two sub challenges, PyBank and PyPoll.

# The PyBank sub challenge analyzes the finanical dataset (budget_data.csv) found in the Resources folder. The financial dataset is composed of two columns -  "Date" and "Profit/Losses". The main python script reads through the finanical data set and calculates the total number of months included in the dataset, the net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, the changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period and then the average of those changes, the greatest increase in profits over the entire period and the greatest decrease in profits over the entire period. The analysis is then printed in the terminal and to a text file in the PyBank analysis folder. To run, the user is able to run the main python script to get an output of the analysis in the terminal and PyBank analysis folder.

# The PyPoll sub challenge analyzes the election poll dataset (election_data.csv) found in the Resources folder. The election dataset is composed of three columns - "Voter ID", "County", and "Candidate". The main python script reades through the election data set and calculates the total number of votes cast, the candidates who recieved votes, the percentage of votes each candidate won, the total number of votes each candidate won, and the winner of the election based on popular vote. The analysis is then printed in the terminal and to a text file in the PyPoll analysis folder.To run, the user is able to run the main python script to get an output of the analysis in the terminal and PyPoll analysis folder.
